well I'm in downtown Los Angeles today
and behind me is LA live the location of
season 2 world so it was just a couple
thousand people in an outdoor courtyard
but it was still really neat one of my
first events and what we did not know at
the time was that we were actually
facing season 3 finals location Staples
Center it was so cool to see a small
event end up being in this huge arena
just one year later and it's these types
of things that I think really show how
big the league of Legends community is
that's why I'm so disappointed that as
eSports and legal legends grow and get
bigger and there's more investment it
feels like rights events are getting
smaller you see I just think
sorry to interrupt you Travis but this
is a sponsored video we'll be right back
to your thoughts in a second but first I
have to tell you all about rivalry you
can check them out over at rivalry GG
they are a betting site so you can
actually bet if it's legal in your area
only do it if it's legal in your area
but you can bet on esports matches now
you've probably heard that in other
export scenes there's been some
shadiness around this stuff before the
air they are doing it legitimately
they're very different and the way they
approach that we've got educational
information on their website that you
can check out and they're also trying to
help support people like myself who
create content and support the industry
so be sure to check them out and by the
way I know this is a controversial
conversation stick around to the end of
the video if you feel like it because
I'm going to give you guys a chance to
decide if this sponsor sticks around and
I'm gonna give you some more information
about them too back to you Travis
alright before i rudely interrupted
myself I was talking about League of
Legends eSports events you know a lot of
people joke about how in 2011 season 1
files took place in freaks basement not
the case but still not too far from the
truth it was a sort of sight event
Dreamhack and happening in Sweden a
multi game event just ass much smaller
audience and that's why it was really
neat that in 2012 we actually grew a lot
we had world take place not only at Elie
live but later on at Galen Center at the
USC arena it was really really neat 2013
got really cool we actually had a
dedicated LCS studio so we had matches
every week no audience yet but then we
also went off to China right its first
international event in a big arena
someplace else that's where all starts
took place and finally we came back to
the world again in LA but this time at
Staples Center for the finals 2014
though is when got real we started
traveling even more we went to Paris for
all-stars and we had me what was my
favorite world's a date with Singapore
Taiwan and Korea across all these
different cities ending in a giant
soccer stadium 2015 continued the trend
with riot creating their own dedicated
LCS studio directly across from their
headquarters and we crossed the Atlantic
now to go to worlds in Europe where we
traveled across Paris and Brussels in
London and ending in
it was so cool and by 2016 we were going
to China for Emma site before returning
back to America that travel through
historic cities with historic venues
like San Francisco the Chicago Theatre
Madison Square Garden and then returning
the Staples Center to celebrate three
years of awesome legal of disease sports
and then things got small in actuality
the problem began at the end of 2015
when instead of booking a big arena
where I decided to host the all-star
event at the NA LCS studios they
reconfigured it so that you could put
more people in it and they put a stadium
outside in the parking lot so it wasn't
that bad and I didn't worry about it in
2016 whenever we ended up going to
Barcelona and had some cool Stadium
there but then 2017 things started to
get more worrying so riot replaced I am
which became defunct with rift rivals
again deciding to host that I had
different Studios around the world like
you LCS or whatever just to get in the
small areas where they do LCS and weekly
games and then again we went back to the
NA LCS Studios for all-stars for what
might be the worst event riot ever put
on they've made no effort to change the
arena make it feel special the whole
thing just was kind of a bummer
now it's 2018 and things are starting to
get a little dire not only as rift
rivals returning to the studios but when
msi got announced it was revealed that
almost entirely the whole event would
take place in berlin at the EU LCS
studio only three days of it or in Paris
at a real venue and while Allstars is
taking place in North America we don't
know where yet but based off of how two
of the past three years have gone I'm
guessing it's the NA LCS studio
[Music]
now the reason all this matters is
because the scale of a venue
communicates the gravitas of an event
now right knows this that's why they put
a giant dragon into the bird's nest last
year and they continued to show photos
of that whenever you see a giant arena
packed with fans all screaming and
watching a match you know that this
thing is epic and yes I would be remiss
if I did not point out that they did
just come off of their biggest finals
ever filling up the stein Arena
the problem is is that it's one night in
one country with two teams and they
followed up with what is objectively
there were seven TEVAR
when they put all stars in the na LCS to
do this is not very fun to watch and I
think everybody kind of agreed with that
but we've crammed them in it also flies
in the face of the story around all this
right now you have ten teams that just
gave you ten million dollars to get
involved in it because eSports is
starting to grow to huge proportions and
you were kind of down scaling making all
the smaller is also not going to
increase investment or more importantly
bringing the sponsors you need to fuel
the investment you already have now I
talked about MSI and how almost all of
it is at the EU LCS studios but of the
three days that are in Paris you only
get to see four teams and that event is
taking place in a venue smaller and not
as nice quite frankly is the venue that
you LCS summer was held at in Paris not
too long ago it's also obvious that
Wright is trying to bring more of these
emerging regions in you know these
wildcard regions is what they used to be
called and that's actually great because
lolly sports is a global phenomenon
scaleable sport the problem is is that
they are also actively decreasing the
chance that any of these regions see
main stage play or play on the big stage
whenever they don't have any more big
arenas that are really hosting any of
these events additionally these events
are a great way to engage local fans all
around the world I love going them and
it's been so cool to meet fans all over
the world that are there for their first
time it's such a different and kind of
better experience than watching on
Twitch or on YouTube but whenever you
keep sticking everything inside of a
studio
with a couple hundred people these
people are all kind of locked outside
and finally you're taking away the glory
from the pros it is a huge difference
whenever faker walks out into Staples
with a packed audience then whenever
he's walking out onto the NA LCS studio
which is possibly smaller than the
studio who plays in in Korea and don't
just take my word for it you can take a
look at this interview that I did at
Allstars I think they should you know
having an awesome location the NA LCS
studio I've been here a billion times
last year was in Barcelona that was an
awesome experience right took us out for
a real like Spanish dinner and I just
had a really good experience whereas I
feel like this is kind of boring for the
players is boring for the fans and I
feel like varieties just I would prefer
to play in a big venue I think everyone
does it the fans prefer it and listen
I'm not saying that these events all
have to scale infinitely and that
everyone has to be bigger than the last
like you notice I didn't even mention na
LCS spring files happening in Miami at a
much smaller events and venue than
normal I actually think that makes a lot
of sense you know they've had a hard
time selling that third and fourth place
in the past for spring it's less
importance than summer and I'm sure
they're a financial concern so let's
find pit that in a smaller venue and do
something really big and awesome for
summer and even when it comes to riff
rivals like it's so whatever event right
before worlds I'm happy it exists but
it's not it doesn't need to be super
grand right the problem is when you take
those two things and you combine them
with things like all-stars and MSI and
just sort of the broader story it just
feels really bad and I don't think that
right is lazy or that they're bad or
that they don't care about this stuff or
that they suck which is what reddit
comments will never leave if anybody
actually cares about this like I do I
just think it's a situation where you
know regardless of whatever sort ejek
plan they have for doing this the Khans
layout way to the pro so I know it's
just a bummer for everyone
world's gonna be in Korea this year I'm
sure I'm gonna have a good time and
these events are gonna be fun to watch
regardless I just I think it'd be a
little cooler if in 2019 we see a return
to form for Riot Games and much bigger
arenas that's the end of the video hope
you enjoyed it and I'll catch you next
time well what a great video Travis that
was so good alright I rushed through the
conversation earlier in the beginning of
the video about the ad because I didn't
want to have like three minutes of
conversation about it at the very
beginning but rivalry approached me a
little bit ago about working with them
and them helping me make additional
cooler content basically by sponsoring
it giving me more funds to do cool
produce videos like this and at first I
was kind of skeptical not so much in
legal legends but and other eSports like
csgo there's been some scandals around
gambling sponsors in the past and some
really shady stuff so you know like this
whole the whole skin betting stuff all
that these guys are trying to do things
very differently which is why I decided
to take the chance on them you know they
have a lot of educational content they
don't want people to think that this is
a way to make money it's more of a way
to sort of add an extra layer of
excitement to it I live in an area of
the world where I can't actually even
use the surface and that's why you know
I I encourage people to only use it if
it's legal on your territory but they
even went so far as to get a gambling
license out of the Isle of Man which is
apparently I learnt and looking all this
stuff up that it's one of the more
legitimate ways to approach this stuff
so they just have a very different tax
they're kind of trying to change the
opinion of gambling sponsors any sports
whatever I can keep talking about this
for a long time but the whole point of
it is they allow me to create more
videos like this if you guys are okay
with it the whole point of it is is that
they will allow me to make more videos
with the sponsorship much like the one
that you just saw but I only want to do
that if you guys are okay with it so in
the past you know I did that how I make
money and how I lose
video and I talked about how I believe
you guys are a stakeholder in this
channel and part of it I want you guys
to tell me whether or not you want me to
move forward with this leave a comment
tell me if you like it if you don't you
know if a majority of you guys if a lot
of you guys feel really strongly I
shouldn't do this I don't want to do it
also by the way rivalry was completely
cool with approaching it this way so
they and I will only do this if you guys
are comfortable with it please let me
know
thanks so much to them for sponsoring
this video and thank you guys for
watching